# Protocol overview

## Constants

### Max name len
The maximum size for names: 64. All names must be under or equal to this size

### Handshake start magic
The magic number for the handshake start: 0x4645

### Handshake mid magic
The magic number for the handshake mid: 0x4E43

### Handshake end magic
The magic number for the handshake end: 0x4552

## Handshake

The beginning of the protocol, where the client is validated. Magic numbers must be correct, or else the connection will stop immediately. The client's name (displayed name in game) is also sent here.

### Handshake start

The start of the handshake: sent by the client to connect. Contains a constant 16 bit magic number, and a name.

### Handshake mid

The middle of the handshake: sent by the server and client. Contains a constant 16 bit magic number, a 64 bit id, and a name. The name must be the same as the handshake start name. The id is generated by the server. The server sends first, and then the client sends it back unmodified.

### Handshake end

The final step of the handshake: sent by the server. Contains a constant 16 bit magic number, and a boolean value to represent success. If the confirmation value is false the connection will be closed, otherwise the protocol will continue.

## Spawning

### Spawn request

A request to get a new spawn point: sent by the client. Contains a 64 bit id.

### Spawn response

A new spawn point for a client: sent by the server. Contains 2 doubles, the x, y and z position.

## Controls

### Move

A message saying a player has moved: sent by the client. Contains a 64 bit id of the player moving, and 3 doubles for the dx, dy and dz.

### Attack

A message saying a player has attacked: sent by the client. Contains a 64 bit id of the player attacking, and an 8 bit attack index.

## Other players

### Map

A message of every other player in the server: sent by the server. Contains a 64 bit player count, arrays of Xs, Ys, Zs, and healths. Xs, Ys and Zs are in double form, while health is in 8 bit int form.

## Leaving

### Disconnect

A message to disconnect from a server: sent by the client. Contains a 64 bit id of the player leaving.

# Protocol order

## Individual steps

### Handshake
1. The client will send a Handshake start packet, with a magic number and name,
2. If the magic number is wrong, the connection ends. Otherwise the handshake continues,
3. The server will send a Handshake mid packet, with a magic number, id and name,
4. The client will store its id, and send the exact same packet back,
5. If the packet was modified, the connection ends. Otherwise, the handshake continues,
6. The server will send a Handshake end packet, with a magic number and boolean confirm value
7. The client will check the confirm value, and if it is false the connection ends. Otherwise, the handshake is over and the protocol can continue.
### Spawning
1. The client will send a Spawn request packet, with its id,
2. The server will response with a Spawn response packet, with the new position,
3. The client will store its position.
### Controls
1. The client will send either a move or attack packet,
2. The server will store this information in the current tick,
3. The next update, all changes will be broadcasted to clients.
### Broadcasting
1. The server will update information,
2. The server will send the new map to every connected client,
3. The clients will store the new map for the rest of the tick.
### Disconnecting
1. The client will send a Disconnect packet to the server,
2. The server will close the connection,
3. The server will not include the disconnected client in map information

## Overall steps

1. Handshake
2. Spawn
3. Control or spawn
4. Broadcast
5. Disconnect or repeat from 2